Date: 10 Aug 2020, 04:13
From: dale mcinnes <dale1949@live.ca>
To: "dino@miketaylor.org.uk" <dino@miketaylor.org.uk>
Subject: "SUPERSAURUS" SCAPULACORACOID

Yes. When we 1st prepared the specimen out, there were 2 problems. 

It actually measured 9' 3''. There were many cracks in the specimen. We sought to close those 
cracks. Was there bone missing? No. But before we could close those cracks, I brought Phil down 
into the casting shop because I had a problem. The bone was so thin on the dorsal section of the 
scapula, that it just petered out BUT, in the matrix, we had an impression with microscopic bits of 
bone and sometimes just a stain. It was impossible to prepare out. Our only guide was that the 
impression in the matrix of the terminal end of the scapula was very well delineated and the only 
way we could capture that was with a thin layer of resin. We never "shaped" the end. It was simply 
a straight pour into the impression. 

What would be the point of extending the scapular blade by 10" anyway ?? 

Half-way through the preparation process, I got on the blower to John McIntosh (Jack). I can't 
remember but, I believe I was to send him photos as we prepared out the Big Bone. Don't know if I 
ever did. I wonder where Jack's "dino stuff" went after he passed away ?!?

Getting back to that impression in the matrix.

Phil recognized it immediately as possible cartilage impression. Ethics aside, I should have painted that 
damn impression the colour of the bone and THEN poured the resin (if I had only known beforehand that 
someone was going to get creative with it). 

Keep in mind, the specimen reached 9' 3". Now that we grabbed the "cartilage impression", we could 
now close the specimen. 

This was the 2nd problem. 

At the time, we didn't really know whether or not the cracks would fit together. This was really important 
because, if they didn't, that would have meant that it was "missing" bone between the 1/2" - 1" cracks .... 
and there were lots of them.

It was very time consuming but every piece fit neatly into every other piece (much to our great relief). 
So we closed the gaps in the scapular blade, thus reducing the overall length by 5" to 8' 10".

And now you know  ...... the rest of the story .....

Seriously though, it ain't over yet. I still have 1,00s of photos to go through of the dig itself (I don't
think that would help anyway). What's WAY MORE IMPORTANT, R the photos of the entire preparation. And 
those I really MUST FIND !!! Its gonna take time .....

dale mcinnes
